Welcome to Working with
Schemes and Projects in Xcode.
I'm Rick Ballard,
and with me today is Mirza Garibovic,
and we're going to take you through
how to build and work effectively
with your projects in Xcode.
Whenever you want to build or perform an
action with your built product in Xcode,
use a Scheme to do it.
A Scheme is an object that can build
your product and perform the five
Scheme actions on that product:
running, testing,
profiling for performance,
analyzing your source code,
and archiving for distribution.
When you select one of these actions,
Xcode will build the targets needed to
produce your product and then perform
the selected action on your product.
So Schemes are the tools that
you use to configure and drive
all your actions in Xcode,
and that's why they're the central
topic of today's presentation.
I'm going to start out today
by covering the core concepts:
workspaces, projects, targets, schemes,
and run destinations.
This may be review for some of you,
but these are the fundamentals
that you'll need to understand
the rest of our presentation.
Then we're going to dive into some
use cases to help you get the most
out of the five scheme actions.
We'll tell you how to work with
your build products and how
to customize their location.
Then go over how to manage your schemes
and share them with your coworkers.
Finally, we're going to finish today by
showing you how you can work with
static libraries for iOS projects.
So let's get started.
We're going to go into the core concepts.
Our first concept today is workspaces.
A workspace groups together references
to projects and the related files
that you want to work with together
into one workspace document.
Generally, you'll create a workspace for
each distinct set of projects that
you want to work with together.
And when you group projects in this way,
they share some important things.
Every workspace gets
a unique symbol index,
a location for build products,
saved window state, and build logs.
Furthermore, a workspace allows implicit
dependencies to be resolved
between targets in that workspace.
If one target produces a product
that another target in the
same workspace links against,
Xcode will discover this and it will
automatically build the target that
builds the library before the target
that links against that library.
There's one more thing you should
know about workspaces in Xcode,
and that's even if you haven't created
an explicit workspace document,
when you open a project in Xcode,
you always have a workspace.
If you just open a standalone project,
Xcode creates an implicit
workspace for that project,
and will actually stash a workspace
file inside the project wrapper.
So anytime you're working with a project,
you have a workspace,
which includes a unique symbol index,
locations for build products, and more.
Any time in this presentation that
I say something about a workspace,
you can assume that the same thing is
true about a standalone project as well.
Now let's talk about projects
and about build configurations.
A project contains references to
your source files and resources,
targets which process those source
files to produce your product,
and schemes which build those targets
and perform actions on their products.
Projects also contain
build configurations,
which allow you to specify different
values for your build settings for
debug and release over any other
custom configurations you've created.
Every project comes with debug
and release build configurations.
And most build settings
only have one value,
but some, like your optimization level,
will have a different value
for debug and release.
Most of you can get by with just debug
and release build configurations.
But if you need to vary your build
settings for some other purpose,
you can create another build
configuration to do so.
You get at your build configurations
in the project editor.
First, you select your project in the
project navigator on the left,
then select the project in
the source list in the middle.
The project editor will be on the right
and contains your build configurations.
Now let's talk about targets.
A target is the set of instructions
for processing some source files
and producing one build product.
So your target will reference some or
all of the source files in its project,
and it contains some build phases,
which are the ordered sequence
of steps that the target will
take to produce your product.
There are a set of build rules which
tell the compile sources build phase
how to compile those source files.
And there are a set of build
settings which control just about
every aspect of the build process.
Targets can also have
explicit dependencies on
one or more other targets.
So if a target depends on another target,
the target depended on will always
be automatically built whenever the
target that depends on it is built.
You edit your target settings
by selecting the project in the
project navigator on the left and
then instead selecting the target
in the source list in the middle.
In the target editor on the right,
if we select the Build Phases tab,
you will see all the build phases,
the ordered sequence of steps,
that are taken to produce
this target's product.
So let's talk about a few of the
things that you might want to do here.
If you want to make your target
explicitly depend on another target,
you can add it in the
Target Dependencies build phase.
If you click the plus button here,
you'll see all the targets
in this target's project,
as well as all targets in projects that
this target's project has a reference to.
So if you're not seeing the
target you want to depend on,
make sure that this target's project has
a reference to the project that contains
the target you want to depend on.
The Compile Sources phase allows
you to set per-file compiler flags,
and also lets you just see and control
which source files this target will
compile to produce your product.
If you want your product to link
against some libraries or frameworks,
you do that in the Link Binaries
with Libraries phase.
You click the plus button here,
we'll show you all the libraries
available in your chosen SDK,
as well as all libraries produced
by targets in this workspace.
You can also drag in any library or
framework that you have a reference
to in your workspace just by dragging
it in from the project navigator.
If you're building a framework,
you can control which headers wind
up in the public and private headers
location inside that framework
with a copy headers build phase.
Any headers you leave in the project
section here will not be copied into
your built framework and will instead
only be available to the project itself.
If you want to copy some image files
or other resources into your product,
you can do so with a copy
bundle resources phase,
which copies the selected resources
into the resources directory
inside your product bundle.
Or you can use a copy files phase to copy
resources into any other location within
the product or your build directory.
Finally, if what you need to do to build
your product isn't covered
by these other build phases,
you can always use a run script
build phase to do anything
that a shell script can do.
You can reorder this phase among
the other phases to control
exactly when it runs and have
as many of them as you want.
If you select the Build Rules tab,
you'll see the default set of
rules that we use to control how
the compile sources phase works.
Most of you don't need
to ever do anything here,
but if you do have some special
type of source file that you
need to compile in a special way,
you can set up a build
rule to do it here.
Finally, we have the build settings.
You'll notice that most build
settings only have one value,
but there are some,
like optimization level,
that you'll have set with different
values for each configuration.
If you want to vary a build setting's
value across different configurations,
you can click on the disclosure triangle
to the left of the build setting.
And if you want to set further
conditions per SDK or per architecture
to vary your build setting further,
you can hover over the build
configuration here and click the
little plus button that shows up.
Now, there's one more important axis of
configuration with your build settings,
and that's the levels.
If you click on the Levels tab,
you'll see the complete hierarchy from
which your build settings are inherited.
On the right are the default values
that will be used for each build
setting if you don't override them.
And to the left of that are the
project-level build settings.
If you go back to the Project Editor,
you'll notice that there's
a Settings tab there,
too.
And any build setting values that
you set at the project level will
be inherited by all of its targets.
The Target Level Build Settings is
where you go to set build setting
values that apply to just this target,
and it will override the values
set at the project or the default.
And finally, on the left,
we show you the resolved value
that will be used for every
build setting in the target.
You'll notice that there's
some green boxes drawn here.
We draw a green box around the level
from which the final value of each of
these build settings is being taken,
so you can just see at a
glance where your actual build
setting values are coming from.
So that's targets.
Let's talk about the
schemes that build them.
A scheme is a file that contains the
instructions for building a set of
targets to produce a product and then
performing actions on that product.
So we have actions for running, testing,
profiling for your performance,
analyzing your source code,
and archiving for distribution.
For each of those actions,
the scheme contains a specification
of the targets that will be built
when you perform that action.
You can get at your schemes in the upper
left-hand corner of the Workspace window,
in the Scheme pop-up.
When you click this,
you'll see a list of all the
schemes available in your Workspace.
And if you choose Edit Scheme,
we'll bring up the Scheme sheet
and let you edit the settings
of your selected scheme.
When you want to perform a Scheme action,
you can do so from the
Product menu in Xcode's menu bar,
or you can click the button in the upper
left-hand corner of the Workspace window.
And actually, if you hold this,
we offer the four Scheme actions
that you often want to run
repeatedly by clicking often,
which are Run, Test, Profile,
and Analyze.
And you'll notice that I haven't
mentioned build as a scheme action.
Build is not one of the actions.
Building is actually a step that
always happens before a scheme action.
So when you're building,
you're always building for some purpose,
like I want to build my
product to run on the debugger,
or I'm ready to build my product
to archive for distribution.
The action that you've chosen
here specifies how you build,
and that it can choose which
targets you're building from
the scheme and which build
configuration they should build with.
We do offer a plain build
command in the product menu,
but that's actually just a
shortcut for build for running,
which is the most common
reason you want to build.
In this Scheme Edit sheet,
you'll notice that the five Scheme
commands are listed on the left,
but at the top above them,
there's a section for Build,
and that's where you go to configure how
your Scheme actions build in the Scheme.
The scheme lists all the targets
that the scheme will build,
along with checkboxes that determine
which scheme actions build which targets.
So, you know,
most of your targets you want to
build for all five scheme actions,
but sometimes you don't.
So, for example,
if you have a unit test bundle,
you really only need to build
those tests when you're going
to perform the test action,
so you only need to have that
checked for the test action here.
You notice that some of these
checkboxes can't be disabled?
Well,
if a scheme action is actually using the
product of one of these targets directly,
like, say, your run action is running
the application product of
your application target,
then that target must be
built for that scheme action,
and you can't disable it
without unsetting the scheme
action using that product.
We have some other options here.
By default,
Xcode will try to parallelize the
build of all your targets as long as
it can with respect to dependencies.
If for some reason you need Xcode
to instead build each target
listed in your scheme in series,
you can turn off parallel builds.
Also, the implicit dependencies feature
I mentioned earlier can be turned
off here if you don't want Xcode
to automatically find and build
targets that produce libraries
before it builds the targets that
link against those libraries.
You noticed that build configuration
was not there in the build slice.
That's because each action specifies
its own build configuration.
For example, when running or testing,
you usually want your
debug build configuration.
But when profiling or
archiving for distribution,
you usually want your
release build configuration.
If you select an action here,
like the test action that I've selected,
you'll see a control that lets you
control which build configuration
is used when performing that action.
So that's schemes.
Now,
when you're performing a scheme action,
you always have to tell Xcode
where you want to perform it,
and that where is the run destination.
Run destination encompasses the device
that you want to build for and run on.
So we give you a choice among
the plugged-in iOS devices
configured for development,
all your available simulators,
and the local Mac,
depending on what your product supports.
You'll note that you only see
devices that are actually compatible
with your target's base SDK and
deployment target build settings.
You get at your run destinations
in the upper left on the right-hand
side of the scheme pop-up,
and when you select that,
we'll show you all available run
destinations that are compatible with
the targets in your selected scheme.
That covers the core fundamentals.
Now I'd like to invite Mirza up on
stage to walk you through some use
cases for the five scheme actions.
So I have a project here,
and suppose I'm an iOS app developer,
and I'm getting ready
to ship my latest app.
I've had my coworker
Rick here testing it for me,
and he just sent me an
email about a crash.
I ran my app and tried to reproduce it,
but I couldn't, so I asked Rick to send
me his application data.
The application data represents
the saved state of my application
on a particular device,
and Rick collected it
from his application,
from his device, by using the organizer,
which you can find here
in the window menu.
In order to use the
application data on my device,
I'm going to want to
add it to my workspace.
So first I'll extract this.
and then just drag it into
the project navigator.
I'll copy it into my project,
but I don't actually want to
add it to a target because it
isn't part of my application.
Next up,
I need to configure the run action to use
this app data every time it runs my app.
I can get to the run action by going
through the edit scheme settings here,
but since I'm going to be
running right after this,
there's a better way to do that,
and that's to hold option
when I click on run here,
or hold option and click on
the run button right here.
So let's do that.
So here's the edit scheme sheet
showing me the run settings.
I have a bunch of options
here for what I'm going to run
and how I'm going to run it.
And I'm going to skip right
here to the Options tab and
look at the application data.
The pop-up shows all the app
data packages in my workspace,
and here's the one I just added.
You'll notice that because
I held down Option,
there's a Run button here in
addition to a Done button.
So I can click to run right here
as soon as I made my changes.
So Xcode's launching my
project in the simulator.
So I have a bit of a stopwatch app.
It's preloaded with Rick's data.
I can still interact with it.
And Rick's told me that if I just
add and remove a few items,
I should be able to reproduce the crash.
Now,
Xcode's running my app in the debugger,
and when I crash, it can tell me what
happened where I've crashed.
You can see right here
that I'm somewhere in,
obviously, Message Send,
but this isn't really
a useful crash point.
Now I noticed this code has some
weird memory management practices,
and it hasn't been
switched over to Arc yet.
So I suspect I might be using a
dangling pointer or maybe sending
a message to a deallocated object.
The tool we usually use
for that is NSZombies.
Now,
let's configure Xcode to help me do that.
If I option click on Run again
to go back to the Scheme options
and switch to Diagnostics,
you can see that I have
a bunch of options here.
I can enable these with checkboxes
instead of having to know the
underlying environment variables
that control these in the OS.
You might want to enable all of these,
but they all have pros and cons,
so look inside our
documentation for what they are.
I'll enable zombie objects,
and let's run again.
So Xcode relaunched my app,
reloaded the application data,
and what I'm going to do is play around
and see if I can reproduce that again.
And here we go.
Now, I'm still getting assembly here,
but if I look into the debug console,
I can see a message about a message
being sent to the allocated object.
That's definitely a zombie, right?
If I look around in this stack
frame up here and go up to my code,
I can see where in my code I've crashed.
So I'm sending a message or I'm trying to
print a message with this object's array.
That seems pretty harmless,
but if I backtrack a little bit up here,
you can see that I'm trying to
save some memory by releasing
this array when it's empty.
But that leaves me with a potentially
daggling pointer in the object's IVAR,
and the rest of my code
isn't set up to handle that.
So I could set this to nil and then
compensate elsewhere in my code,
but you know,
this seems an awful lot like
premature optimization to me,
so I'm just going to delete
this block of code altogether.
Okay, let's try again.
Fresh state.
And that seems to work.
It's not crashing the same way.
All right.
Let's move on to the test action.
If I click and hold here,
I can change my current action to test,
and I'll option click to go
straight into the settings.
You can see here that all my
tests run under a debugger,
and here are my application tests.
Now, my app's actually using
a static library as well,
and I'd like to run those
tests any time I run my tests.
If I click on plus here,
I'll see all the tests in my workspace,
I can add my library tests,
and let's test that right away.
So Xcode's running my tests,
and I can immediately see that
I already have a failure right here.
If I go to the log navigator,
I can see the tests as it's running them.
Now, I have a lot of tests here,
and they're going to take a while to run,
so I'll just stop this.
I want to focus on the test that failed,
and I can actually set up Xcode
to use just that one test,
so I can quickly iterate on it.
I'll option click on test again,
and I can expand these groups,
and option click here to
enable and disable everything,
then I'll disable the library
tests and the test I saw failing.
If I just test again here...
I'll get that test failure and
none of my other tests are running.
Now, if I click on this,
I can bring it up in the source editor.
So here's my test code.
This seems like a little bit
of a strange place to fail,
so I'm creating a new
account with the name John,
then I'm checking that the
new account name is John.
That should just work, right?
Now, every time I run my tests,
Xcode is running them in the debugger.
So if I want to take a closer look,
I can set a breakpoint right
here and hit Test again.
Okay, here we are,
stopped in the debugger,
and I'm just going to step over
this line and expect the results.
So if I look at the
variables view right here,
I can see that this account is nil.
It seems a little strange.
I should have gotten an account.
So I can go to the debug console
right here and print the error.
So I'm being told that an account
named John already exists and
the account creation failed.
So actually you can see my test
case set of code right here.
I already created an
account with the name John.
There's a collision, right?
I still want to test
account creation separately,
so I'll just change this name
to Johnny and test again.
So I stopped at my breakpoint.
I can remove it and continue on.
And my test succeeded.
All right.
That's how you can configure Xcode to
control exactly which tests you run and
then debug the tests you're working with.
Let's move on to the profile action.
If I click and hold here,
switch to profile,
Xcode launches instruments for me.
And I have a bunch of tools
here that I can use to measure
the performance of my app.
That's generally what you
would use profiling for,
to measure performance issues.
Now, Rick's been testing my app again,
and he told me that if he plays
with it for a really long time,
it crashes eventually.
That sounds like memory growth, right?
The first thing I like
to check for is leaks,
and I can select, re-select here,
and profile.
But if I'm going to be
working with leaks a lot,
I can actually set up Xcode to
launch leaks directly for me.
So let's cancel that, go back to Xcode.
I'll option-click on profile,
bring up the edit scheme sheet,
and you can see that I have
an option right here to select
the instrument I want to use.
There's leaks.
I'll change that and hit profile again.
So here's instruments.
immediately opened up Leaks,
and it's running my app in the simulator.
So I'll play around here a little
bit and see if we can see anything.
So if you look down here,
you can see there seem to
be leaking NSDate objects.
Now, my app's actually showing dates,
so that kind of makes sense.
So I'll stop this recording
and look at the data.
Instruments telling me that
the responsible stack frame is
in my insert new object code.
And if I click in the toolbar
to bring in the full stack,
I can double-click on my
stack frame and see my code.
So I'm creating a date with alloc init,
then adding it to an objects array,
and this isn't Arc code, right?
So I still have ownership of this date,
and I need to release it
after I'm done with it.
That's why it's leaking.
Now I can go back to Xcode
and fix this profile again,
but there's another way
I could have caught this before
I even started Instruments,
and that's the analyze action.
Let's go back and try that.
So I can click and hold
here to switch to analyze.
When I run the analyzer,
Xcode runs the Clang static analyzer
on all the source in my targets.
The results are similar
to compiler warnings,
but the analyzer employs more
thorough algorithms that reason
about the semantics of my code,
and it can track down leaks
like the one we just saw.
So I click here to analyze,
and that was pretty quick.
I have an issue here.
I can click on that.
I'm being told that I might be leaking
an object stored into the variable date.
If I click on this annotation,
I get a control flow graph.
So by the time I get
to step two right here,
it's telling me I'm no longer using date,
I've leaked it.
So I can fix that just by
adding date release right here.
Okay, let's analyze again,
see if that helps.
Okay, so analysis succeeded.
There are no more warnings.
So I fixed the crash, I fixed the leak,
my text cases are all good,
there are no more warnings here.
If I'm ready to ship this app,
I'll use the archive action.
So when you archive,
Xcode builds an optimized release build
of your product ready for distribution.
First of all,
I'll change my destination to a
device because I want to distribute
something that runs on a device.
Then I'll go up to the products
menu and click on archive.
So here's the organizer.
Here's my new archive,
but there's a bit of a problem here,
right?
It's not showing my application icon.
Instead, I'm getting this generic
default archive icon.
And Xcode's telling me that the archive
type is a generic Xcode archive.
There's no version number.
There's no identifier.
This isn't something I'm going to
be able to submit to the store.
So to see what's wrong here,
we're going to have to learn a little
bit about the structure of archives.
Let's switch back to slides for a moment.
So what is an archive?
It's actually a bundle,
and it contains three things.
An install style build
of your application,
which has post-processing steps
applied to it to make your
application ready for distribution.
It contains your app's debug
symbols so that you can symbolicate
crash logs and debug other things.
And it also contains metadata
about your submission status,
comments,
and notes you might want to record.
There's a specific type of archive
called an application archive.
The definition is that it contains
nothing other than your application.
So your build process must take
care not to install anything
else separately into the archive.
A common problem with apps that use
frameworks or libraries is that they
accidentally install the framework
and library next to the archive in
addition to inside their application.
So what you want to do is just embed
frameworks in your application,
link in the libraries,
but make sure they aren't
installed in the archive.
And for that,
we have a skip install build setting.
So let's go back to my project and
see if that's what's going wrong.
So let's dig into this archive,
take a close look at the inside.
Here's a bundle, I right click on it.
Here's a bundle.
I right click on that to
show the package contents.
Here are the things I mentioned.
Here are my debug symbols,
an info with metadata and a products
directory with my project products.
There's my application right there.
And here's my straight static library.
It's not supposed to be in here; right?
Now, I can't just delete
this from the archive.
I need to go back to Xcode and
tell it how to create a new
archive without that library.
If I look inside the project navigator,
I can see that I am using a
static library right here.
And if I go to its target's
build settings and search for
I see that I've set that to no,
but it's really supposed to be yes.
So let's change that in Archive again.
So here we go.
Here's an archive.
It has my app icon.
Xcode recognizes it as
an application archive.
It has a version number
and a bundle identifier.
So that's how you can look inside
Archive to fix common problems and
get your app ready for distribution,
making sure that you're not
shipping anything you don't expect.
So that covers the basic scheme actions.
The one you'll use mostly, day to day,
is the run action.
It also has the most useful options.
So I'm going to demonstrate a
more advanced use case that shows
you how to use custom executables
and environment variables or
arguments based on build settings.
Suppose that I'm working in a
plugin for a Mac OS X application.
The way plugins usually work is that the
plugin is a bundle or dynamic library,
and the host application is developed
separately but is then instructed to
load the plugin dynamically at runtime.
It needs to know where to find
the plugin in order to load it.
So I've created an app
here from the template,
the bundle template.
And I can build this, test it,
analyze it,
but I can't actually run it or
profile it because a standalone
plugin doesn't really do anything.
What I need to do is tell
Xcode to automate the act of
launching the host application,
telling it where to
find and load my plugin,
and then connecting with a
debugger so that I can verify
my plugin actually works.
And I can do all that
in the run settings.
I'm going to option click on run again.
and go to the Info tab.
You see here that I have a control
for the executable I'm running.
It's empty because my
plugin has no executables,
right?
What I can do here is select
Other to find my host application.
Now,
I have an app here called Quux Arcade.
It acts like an arcade cabinet.
It loads plugins to provide
the games that it later shows.
I'll select that, and let's just run it
and see what happens.
So Xcode's building my plugin,
and it's going to launch Quark's
Arcade attached with a debugger,
but Quark's Arcade doesn't know
where to find my plugin yet.
So I'm getting a message
in the bug console,
no plugins found.
I need to figure out how to tell
Xcode where to find my plugin.
Quark's Arcade is instructing
me that I can pass extra
plugins path in the environment,
and this is how I'll tell
it where to find my plugin.
I'm going to copy this right here.
Now, when Xcode builds my plugin,
it puts it in its build products there.
I need to tell Quark's Arcade
where my build's project is,
and also do that in the run settings.
If I switch to the Arguments tab,
I'll see a section for
environment variables.
Create a new one and paste
in extra plugins path.
Now, how do I know where my
build product store is?
Xcode actually provides
it in a build setting.
This way I don't have to know
where it is in case I move my
project or reconfigure it otherwise.
So what I'm going to do here is click
and use $brace build product store.
And the $BRIS or parentheses
syntax tells Xcode to expand this
build setting in this value when
it launches the host application.
If you look at our documentation,
you'll find a list of
useful build settings.
The only thing left is to
tell Xcode which target to
get that build setting from,
and I'm going to select
Spruce Blasters right here.
So let's run again.
So here's Quark's Arcade
and it found Swift Blasters.
Great.
So that's how you can use custom
executables and environment
variables from build settings.
All right.
I'd like to hand over to Rick to
tell you more about how to
work with your build products.
Thanks, Mirza.
I'm going to show you how you can work
with and customize your build products.
But first,
let's talk a bit about where they go.
Every workspace has its
own derived data directory,
and that's where we put derived data,
your source code index, your build logs,
your save Windows date goes in there,
and your build products and
intermediates by default.
Workspaces are distinguished by path,
so if you have multiple
copies of the same workspace,
they actually get their own
derived data directory because
they're at different paths.
So I'm going to show you how
we can dive in and customize
where this derived data goes.
Great.
In Xcode,
if you go to Xcode's preferences,
There's a Locations preference panel,
and here you can see that
there's a derived data setting.
This allows me to control exactly
where my derived data goes.
And if I click this arrow,
Xcode will bring up the derived
data location in Finder.
Here you can see I've got a bunch
of different folders with kind of
a long gibberish suffix after that.
Well,
each of these folders are each workspaces
per workspace derived data directory.
And they're named after the
workspace they apply to and have
appended a hash that's generated
from that workspace path.
So it can disambiguate which
one goes with which workspace.
If I look inside one of these,
you'll see that I have build products
and an index and stuff like that.
So one thing I might want to do,
you know, by default this goes in
my home library folder,
but one thing I might want to do
is put it in a secure location,
like an encrypted disk image,
for security reasons.
So it's actually really easy to do that.
Let's go back to Xcode here,
and I can choose a different
location for my derived data.
So I'm going to choose custom,
and I'll bring up the file chooser,
and I've got a secure disk image here.
And I'm going to name this
one Secure Derived Data.
Now if I choose this,
all my derived data for all
my projects go into folders,
per workspace derived data folders,
at that location instead of
in my home library folder.
I might also want to set this
on a per-workspace basis.
If, say, different workspaces need to go
into different secure disk images,
like maybe I'm a consultant and
I have different clients who
have different security needs.
So I'm going to set this back to
default and close my preferences.
If I go to the File menu,
I can choose Project Settings,
or if this is an explicit
workspace document,
it would be called Workspace Settings.
And here I get a sheet that
gives me the same control,
so I can set a custom drive data
location on a per-workspace basis.
Okay, another thing I might want to be
able to do is find my build products
so that I can easily manipulate
them directly or inspect them.
So, you know,
say I want to use the NM tool to inspect
the symbol table of my build product.
Let me show you how to do that.
First, I'm going to launch Terminal.
And I'm going to type xc run nm.
xc run-- whoops-- nm.
xc run will find nm in my installed
Xcode and launch it out of there.
And I'll pass -a to say I want
to dump the whole symbol table.
And now I need to pass it
the path to my build product.
So let's figure out how
to get that in Xcode.
If I go back here and
click the Advanced button,
I'll get a sheet that gives
me direct control over exactly
where my build products go.
It also has these fields down at the
bottom that show me the path to my build
products and my build intermediates.
And I can just click this button
here to bring up the build
products folder for this workspace.
You can see I've got a per
configuration build directory in here.
And there's my build product.
So I'm just going to drag this right
into terminal to paste in its path.
I'm also going to supply the path
to the binary inside this bundle.
And there's my symbol table.
That was pretty easy.
Okay, another thing I might want to
do is share build products.
As I said, by default,
each workspace gets its own derived
data directory with its own build
products so that one workspace
doesn't get mixed up with another.
It doesn't clobber another workspace's
build products or accidentally
link against something that was
produced by a different workspace.
But sometimes I actually want to
intentionally share build products
between multiple projects or workspaces.
So, for example, let me close this down.
I have my Smith Blasters plugin here,
and it goes into the
build products directory,
and Quarks Arcade knows
to look for it there now.
But I have another plugin project
called Super X Code World,
and I want Super X Code World to
also get picked up by Quarks Arcade
at the same time when it launches,
so I load both plugins.
Since Quarks Arcade is just looking
at my build products directory,
that means they both need to be in
the same build products directory,
both plugins.
So there are a couple ways I can do this.
The first way is to put both
projects into the same workspace.
So I'm going to go ahead
and create a new workspace,
and I'll call it Quarks Arcade plugins.
And I'll just stick this on my desktop.
And now I can go ahead and drag
in both the Spiff Blasters project
and the Super Xcode World project.
And now since both projects
are in the same workspace,
they're both going to use this
workspace's derived data directory,
as long as I have the
workspace open here.
And that means that their build
products are going to go in the
same build products directory.
So I can select my Super Xcode
World scheme and just build.
So that'll put its plugin in
my build products directory.
And the same Spiff Blaster scheme
that I set up before is available
through the workspace because
it's in that project here.
So when I build and run,
it'll still launch Quark's Arcade
and it's still set up to look
in my build products directory.
And you can see Quark's Arcade
now finds both plugins in the
build products directory at once.
Okay,
what if I want to do something similar,
sharing build products,
but I don't actually want to
have to put all the projects I'm
working with into one workspace
and have them all open at once?
There's a way to do that, too.
I'm going to close my workspace
and open Spiff Blaster's backup.
Go back to File, Project Settings,
Advanced,
which is where I get direct control
over where my build products go.
You see,
one of the options here is Shared Folder.
When I choose Shared Folder,
my workspace will put its build products
into a folder of the name I specify
here inside the derived data location,
instead of into this
per-workspace derived data folder.
So I can call this shared
folder Quark's Arcade Plugins,
and if I were to open Super Xcode
World and set Shared Folder
there to the same folder,
then both these workspaces would
build into the same folder,
and Quark's Arcade would be able
to find both plugins the same way.
I can also set this.
Globally, for all my projects,
if I really want to,
in Xcode's location preferences,
the same way.
Okay,
I'm going to show you something else now.
Often you may have an external tool
or script that you want to run on
your build products outside of Xcode,
but the problem you run into is,
how does that tool know where
to find your build products,
especially if it's running on an
automated server or something like that?
There are a couple different
ways you can tell external tools
how to find your build products.
The first way is to choose a
location where you're going to
place those build products yourself
and tell Xcode to put them there,
and then tell that external
tool the same location.
So if I choose custom here,
I'm going to choose an absolute location,
and I'll use the file picker
under products to choose my
secure source disk image,
and I'll create a products folder here,
create that, and choose it.
And now this workspace will put all
its build products at that location.
So since that's a path
that's known to me,
I can just give that path to
my external tool or script,
and it will know how to find
my build products there too.
Well, what if I don't want to abandon
per-workspace derived data directories,
because I'm working with Xcode,
multiple copies of this workspace,
and I don't want them
to clobber each other,
but I still want to give my path,
my products path to an external tool.
There's another way I can do that.
I'm going to leave this set to the
default location and dismiss this sheet,
and I'm going to bring up terminal again.
And to do this,
I'm going to use Xcode build to print
out the build settings of this target.
So I'm going to say Xcode build
and pass the dash show build
settings command line flag.
Now I need to pass dash project
and go to the build settings.
I can give it the path to my project.
So I'll drag in spiff
blasters to paste that in.
Now I need to say -target and say which
targets build settings I want to see.
So it's the Spiff Blaster's target.
Now when I hit return,
Xcode build prints out all the build
setting values from this target.
So if I do a find here and
search for built products dir,
you can see that it's printed out the
location where my build products are.
So I could have my external tool or
script run this same command itself and
parse out the build products dir value
from this output and look there to find
the build products that it wants to find.
Great.
There's one more thing you often
do with your build products,
and that's to clean them out
so you can do a clean build.
In Xcode, when you use the clean command,
we will analyze the targets in
your selected scheme and delete the
primary product of each of those
targets so that you start over clean.
Sometimes this can take a little while,
and the other downside here is
it can sometimes miss files.
If you have a copy files build phase
or run script build phase that lay
things down in the products directory
that aren't in your actual product,
the clean command doesn't
know how to remove those.
So sometimes,
both for speed and for thoroughness,
it makes more sense to just delete
your build products folder outright.
And I know a lot of you go
and do this in Finder often.
Well, there's a way to do it
straight from Xcode,
which is more convenient.
If you hold down the option key,
the clean command turns into
a clean build folder command.
If you choose that and confirm the sheet,
we just delete the build
products folder outright.
All right,
that's about enough about build products.
I'm going to go back to slides.
And let's move on to talk about
how to manage your schemes and
share them with your coworkers.
The first thing you generally want
to know is when schemes are created.
You can create them manually,
but Xcode will also create
schemes automatically for you
under a couple of circumstances.
First, whenever you create a new target
or a new project with targets,
Xcode will create a scheme
for each new target.
Second of all,
whenever you open an existing project or
workspace that you haven't opened before,
or that you have but someone's
created new targets in it
since you last had it open,
Xcode will go and create a scheme
for you for each of the new targets
in that project or workspace.
These auto-created targets are per user,
so they're not shared with anyone else.
And if you delete them,
Xcode will remember that it's
auto-created them for you in the past,
so it knows not to
auto-create them again,
and so you don't have to play
whack-a-mole with unwanted schemes.
I said we create a
scheme for every target,
but that's not quite right.
For most targets,
we auto-create a scheme for you,
like framework targets,
application targets.
But if you have a unit
test bundle target,
we'll instead try to add that test bundle
to the test action of another scheme.
So if your test bundle or unit
tests for your application,
we'll find your application scheme and
just add the test bundle to the test
action of that application scheme.
If you create a new test bundle
and you get a scheme with it,
you usually want to delete that
test scheme and just add the
test bundle to the test action of
whatever scheme the tests test.
If you have a large workspace,
you may get a lot of auto-created
schemes when you open it.
Don't feel like you
have to keep them all.
For example, if I have a framework scheme
and an application scheme,
but my application links
against my framework,
I can go ahead and delete
my framework scheme,
because whenever I build
the application scheme,
it'll build that framework
target as well via dependencies.
You can manage your schemes by going
to the Scheme pop-up in the upper left,
where you'll see all the
schemes in your workspace,
and choosing the Manage Schemes option.
This brings down the
Scheme Management sheet,
which is where you can go to create,
delete, reorder schemes,
and to change some other options.
So, first of all,
in the upper left-hand corner,
we have an Auto Create Schemes checkbox.
Most of you will want
to leave this checked,
but if you have a complicated
workspace with complicated
shared schemes that you've set
up that you want your team using,
and you don't want new team members
getting all the auto-created schemes
when they open your workspace because
you want them to use your shared ones,
you can turn this checkbox off,
and Xcode won't auto-create
schemes for them.
The Auto Create Schemes Now button will
cause Xcode to create a scheme for every
target in your workspace that isn't
already part of an existing scheme.
So, this is useful if you've deleted a
whole bunch of auto-created schemes,
but now want to get them back.
So say you've authored a complicated
scheme with some very specific settings,
and now you want to share them
with other people on your team.
Well,
if you check the Shared checkbox here,
Xcode will move that scheme from your
per-user data location to the shared
data location inside the project,
and everybody else who's working
with that project or workspace
will see that scheme too.
Any modifications you make to
the scheme at this point will
also be shared with everybody.
Sometimes you may have a lot of
schemes that are shared that other
people on your team have created
that you don't actually care about,
like maybe some QA schemes
if you're in engineering,
and you don't want to see them
cluttering up your scheme pop-up.
If you uncheck the Show checkbox,
we won't show that in the
scheme pop-up anymore,
but this checkbox is per-user,
so you won't be affecting anybody else.
Sometimes you have a shared
scheme and you want to make
a quick one-off change to it,
like add some argument to the run action.
But you don't want to accidentally
make that change for everybody
if you forget to delete it.
So what we recommend in that case is
to select the shared scheme and choose
Duplicate from the gear menu down here.
That will give you a per-user
temporary copy of that scheme.
Well, it can be temporary,
it can be permanent, up to you.
And you can make your changes and then
just delete it when you're done with
it if you don't want to keep it around.
The container column here shows you
where each of these schemes is stored.
So, you know,
every scheme file is stored inside
a project or workspace wrapper,
and you can choose to store
your schemes in a project if
you want everyone who works with
that project to see that scheme,
or you can choose to store them in a
workspace if you want certain schemes
to only show up for people who are
using one of your specific workspaces.
So let's talk a bit more about exactly
where these scheme files go on disk.
Inside each project or workspace wrapper,
there are two interesting directories:
XE user data, which is all the user data
for that project or workspace,
and XE shared data,
which is all the shared data.
So inside the shared data directory,
there's an XE schemes directory,
and inside there are all the scheme
files that are shared for users
of this project or workspace.
In the XC User Data folder,
you'll see a separate folder for each
user of this project or workspace,
named after the short
username of that user.
Inside there is another
XC Schemes folder,
and inside there you'll find
all the per-user schemes,
as well as an XC Scheme
Management Property List,
which stores things like which
schemes you've chosen to show or hide,
what order you've arranged
them to show up in,
and which schemes Xcode has auto-created
for you in the past so it knows
not to auto-create them again.
If you bring up the
Source Control Commit sheet,
you'll see the same
hierarchy represented here.
And generally,
you want to commit all your shared
schemes so that you can actually
share them with your coworkers.
You may also want to commit your
per-user schemes in your Scheme
Management Property List if
you want to save those things.
By default, we don't add any schemes
to Source Control.
So when you want to commit a scheme,
you need to make sure to check
the checkbox on the left here
to add it to Source Control.
That's about all you need to
know about Scheme Management.
So to finish today,
I'd like to invite Mirza back up to
take you through a demo of how you can
work with static libraries for iOS.
Thanks, Rick.
Hello again.
So what I'd like to show you here is
how you can start with an application,
extract your utility code
into a static library,
and then use that library
in your other applications.
So I have a project
here called Hazard Map.
If I launch this in the simulator,
I can see it displays a map.
I want to use this map view across
my other applications as well.
So the first step is to create a
separate project for my static library.
I'm going to go to File, New Project.
Select the Cocoa Touch Static
Library template,
and I'll call it libmap.
For my application to use my library,
I need to add a reference to the
library project for my app project,
and there's a shortcut that
I can use to do that right here.
If I select Hazard Map,
I've created a libraries group for it.
Now I need to take care not to
put my library source inside
my application source because
I want to share this library
across other applications as well.
So I'm just going to put
it up here next to my apps.
Great.
So I have a static library here.
It comes with some sample
code that I can delete.
And now I need to set up this library.
I'm going to do three things.
I'm going to copy source code into it,
copy resources,
and then figure out what headers
I want my clients to be able to access.
So I want this view controller, this map,
and this map view.
And I'm just going to drag them
up here into the library project.
I do want to copy the source
into my library source,
and I want to compile these things,
so I'm going to add them to my target.
I cannot delete them from my application.
I'm going to trash them
because I've copied them over.
Next up, I want to copy some resources
from my app to my library.
Specifically, I have this mapping data
and this view controller,
Zib.
So I'm going to create a group
for the resources right here
and just call it Resources.
And then I'll select these two,
copy them over the same way.
But this time,
I don't want to add them to my target,
because a static library target
cannot process resources.
Instead, I'll want to add these
to my application target,
and I'll show you how
to do that in a moment.
For now, I'll leave this unchecked.
And again, I can delete these.
So the last step in setting
up the library is figuring out
what headers I want to export.
I look at the library's build faces.
If you've ever built a framework before,
you know that a framework
has a copy headers face.
But copy headers isn't intended
for use with static libraries.
If you have one,
you should get rid of it because
it will definitely mess up
your distribution archives.
What we're going to do instead
is use a copy files face.
If you're using the latest
Xcode 4.5 developer preview,
the static library
template will include this.
If not, you can add it yourself using
the add build face button.
This phase is set up to copy my
headers into my products directory
in a sub-directory called include,
and a sub-directory under that
that's going to be my library name.
Here I am using the same $brace
syntax to expand product name into
what's going to be my library name.
So the header I want is this
view controller right here.
I'm just going to drag it in.
So that should be it.
Let me build my static
library to make sure it works.
Okay, build succeeded.
Let's go back to the app.
So the next step here is to look at what
configuration I need to make in my app
to include the static library correctly.
The first step is the
reference to the project,
and I already did that
when I created a library.
Next up, I need my app to link
against my static library.
If I go to my application
targets build phases,
I have a link binary
with libraries phase.
I can click plus here to
add my static library.
When I do this,
Xcode's implicit dependencies are
going to build my static library
every time I build my application,
so I don't need to add an
explicit dependency here.
Next up, I want my app to use the
resources from my library,
specifically the zip file
and the mapping data.
To do that,
I need a reference to each of these
resources in my application project,
and what I'll do is
create a brand new group.
I'll just call it LibMap,
and I'll drag these in.
This time,
I need to take care not to copy them
over because I want to pick up changes
that are made in my static library.
I will add them to my target
so that they are copied into my
application target every time I build.
This is a bit of a manual
process because every time I add
a new resource to the library,
I'm going to need to add another
reference inside my application.
So now if I look at my application's
Copy Bundle Resources phase,
I'll see these two new resources,
and that's what I want.
Okay, now let's look at my app delegate.
When my sources all live together,
I could import my library headers or my
view control headers directly by name.
But in this case, I'm getting an error,
and the reason is that my
application doesn't know where
to find my library headers.
Now remember how my library has a
copy files phase that copies headers
into the product directory under
include under the library name.
So Xcode's standard header search
paths are already set up to look
inside the product directory include,
but I also need to add
my library name here.
So I'm going to import libmap
slash hazard map view controller.
This way,
each of my library's headers are
nicely segregated by library name
so that libraries that have similar
header names aren't going to collide.
There's one last step here.
When you link against a static library,
the linker is actually only
going to include the things it
can detect that you're using.
That way it keeps your app small.
But Objective-C is such a dynamic
language that you could potentially
use a class without the linker being
able to detect that you're using it.
So I need to tell the linker to be
really aggressive about including all
Objective-C code from static libraries.
I'm going to look at my application
target's build settings.
I'll search for other linker
flags in all the build settings.
And here it is.
So what I want to do is add -objc.
And that's it.
That should tell the linker to
bring in all classes and categories
from any static library I'm using.
So what I'm going to do is a clean
build folder to start from scratch
and make sure we got this right.
And then I'm going to run
my app in the simulator.
Okay, here it is showing the map again,
but this time it's getting the
map from my static library.
So this is how you can set up your iOS
applications to use static libraries.
What I'm going to do is close this
and open up my other application
right here and show you how
to get started on setting that
one up to use the same library.
I've created a libraries
group right here.
If I right-click on that,
I can choose to add files to it.
And I need to find my library project.
And I don't want to add it to my target.
I'm just referencing it here.
And now we can go ahead and set
up the linkage and the headers
the same way I did before.
All right.
Go back to slides.
So that's how you can
effectively use static libraries
in your iOS applications.
I hope you find this session useful.
If you have any questions,
please contact Michael Jurowicz,
our developer evangelist.
We also have excellent documentation
available on developer.apple.com.
And if you have any
questions after the labs,
you can always ask them
on devforums.apple.com.
Here's a few more related sessions,
some of which are coming up this week,
some of which already happened
but you can find online.
Thanks, and enjoy your WWDC.